     'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more
    That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
    O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
    And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
    Where never man's eye may behold my body:
    Do this, and be a charitable murderer.

TAMORA

    So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee:
    No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.

DEMETRIUS

    Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.

LAVINIA

    No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature!
    The blot and enemy to our general name!
    Confusion fall--

CHIRON

    Nay, then I'll stop your mouth. Bring thou her husband:
    This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.

    DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the pit; then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA

TAMORA

    Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
    Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed,
    Till all the Andronici be made away.
    Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
    And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow'r.

    Exit

    Re-enter AARON, with QUINTUS and MARTIUS

AARON

    Come on, my lords, the better foot before:
    Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
    Where I espied the panther fast asleep.

QUINTUS

    My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.

MARTIUS

    And mine, I promise you; were't not for shame,
    Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.

    Falls into the pit

QUINTUS

    What art thou fall'n? What subtle hole is this,
    Whose mouth is cover'd with rude-growing briers,
    Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
    As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
    A very fatal place it seems to me.
    Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?

MARTIUS

    O brother, with the dismall'st object hurt
    That ever eye with sight made heart lament!

AARON

    [Aside] Now will I fetch the king to find them here,
    That he thereby may give a likely guess
    How these were they that made away his brother.

    Exit

MARTIUS

    Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
    From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?

QUINTUS

    I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
    A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints:
    My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.

MARTIUS

    To prove thou hast a true-divining heart,
    Aaron and thou look down into this den,
    And see a fearful sight of blood and death.

QUINTUS

    Aaron is gone; and my compassionate heart
    Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
    The thing whereat it trembles by surmise;
    O, tell me how it is; for ne'er till now
    Was I a child to fear I know not what.

MARTIUS

    Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here,
    All on a heap, like to a slaughter'd lamb,
    In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.

QUINTUS

    If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?

MARTIUS

    Upon his bloody finger he doth wear
    A precious ring, that lightens all the hole,
    Which, like a taper in some monument,
    Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks,
    And shows the ragged entrails of the pit:
    So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
    When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.
    O brother, help me with thy fainting hand--
    If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath--
    Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
    As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.

QUINTUS

    Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out;
    Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good,
    I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
    Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.
    I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.

MARTIUS

    Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.

QUINTUS

    Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
    Till thou art here aloft, or I below:
    Thou canst not come to me: I come to thee.

    Falls in

    Enter SATURNINUS with AARON

SATURNINUS

    Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
    And what he is that now is leap'd into it.
    Say who art thou that lately didst descend
    Into this gaping hollow of the earth?